= ASAutotest

ASAutotest is an automatic compilation and testing tool ideally suited
for non-IDE ActionScript development.

It operates by watching your entire source directory, triggering a
recompilation as soon as any source file changes.  Compilation errors
are reported to the terminal in a nice way.  To keep compilation times
to a minimum, it uses the Flex Compiler Shell (FCSH).

There is also support for automatically running tests after a
successful compilation, but this currently requires some manual glue,
is undocumented and a bit hard to set up (once set up, though, it
works really well).  For a working example of the kind of glue you
need, see <tt><test-project/src/specification.as></tt>.


== Installation

You can install ASAutotest by simply symlinking the executable into
your PATH:

  $ ln -s ~/asautotest/bin/asautotest.rb ~/bin/asautotest

To get started, you need fcsh, which is part of the Flex SDK.
It should either be in your PATH, or you can set the <tt>FCSH</tt>
environment variable to the location of the <tt>fcsh</tt> executable.
(Unfortunately, symlinking <tt>fcsh</tt> into your PATH may not work;
if so, you will likely end up preferring to set the
environment variable.)

You can find the Flex SDK here:
http://opensource.adobe.com/wiki/display/flexsdk


== Usage

Once you have both <tt>asautotest</tt> and <tt>fcsh</tt> in place, try
this:

  $ asautotest ~/my-project/src/main.as

This will compile <tt>main.as</tt>, using <tt>~/my-project/src</tt> as
the source directory, and then go to sleep, waiting for changes.
As soon as some <tt>*.as</tt> or <tt>*.mxml</tt> file in
<tt>~/my-project/src</tt> (or any subdirectory) changes, ASAutotest
will wake up and perform a recompilation.

By default, the resulting SWF is placed in a temporary directory and
then thrown away.  If you want to use the SWF, you need to specify
where it should be placed, using the <tt>--output</tt> option (or
<tt>-o</tt> for short):

  $ cd ~/my-project
  $ asautotest src/main.as -o bin/my-project.swf

If you have additional source directores, add them using the
<tt>--source</tt> option (or <tt>-I</tt> for short):

  $ asautotest ~/my-project/src/main.as -I ~/my-other-project/src

To link with SWC files, use the <tt>--library</tt> option (or
<tt>-l</tt> for short):

  $ asautotest main.as -l ../lib/some-library.swc


== Autotesting

You can tell ASAutotest to run your SWF as a test using the
<tt>--test</tt> option (or <tt>-t</tt> for short):

  $ asautotest spec.as --test

For this to work, your test must follow a rather complicated protocol
involving connecting to a socket and sending the test results in a
specific (non-standard) format.  ASAutotest comes with adapter code
for ASSpec, so if your tests are written using ASSpec, then getting up
and running with autotesting should be easy.  

Your <tt>foo_spec.as</tt> should look like this:

  package
  {
    import asautotest.ASSpecRunner
  
    public class foo_spec extends ASSpecRunner
    {
      public function foo_spec()
      { super(new FooSuite) }
    }
  }

Then you need to add <tt>asautotest/assspec/src</tt> as a source
directory:

  $ asautotest foo_spec.as --test -l asspec.swc -I ~/asautotest/asspec/src

Because the test communicates with ASAutotest through a socket, you
also need to run a Flash cross-domain policy server on port 843 (which
unfortunately requires root privileges); otherwise, the test will not
be able to connect to ASAutotest:

  $ sudo ~/asautotest/bin/policy-server.rb

This will just keep running, so you may want to start it in a screen:

  $ screen sudo ~/asautotest/bin/policy-server.rb

You should be all set for autotesting now.  Try it out by changing
something in your code and watching the tests run automatically.
Note that the tests are only executed if all compilations succeed.


=== Advanced autotesting

By default, ASAutotest expects the test to connect to port 50102.
If for some reason you need to use a different port (maybe you have
multiple ASAutotest instances running at the same time), you can use
the <tt>--test-port</tt> option to specify it:

  $ asautotest foo_spec.as --test --test-port 54321

To change the port that the ASSpec adapter connects to, do this:

      public function foo_spec()
      { super(new FooSuite, 54321) }

If you need to write your own adapter to another testing framework,
you can use <tt>ASSpecRunner.as</tt> as a starting point.


== Multi-compilation

If you need to compile multiple SWFs (for example, one production SWF
and one test), use <tt>--</tt> (double hyphen) to divide the command
line into sections:

  $ asautotest foo.as -o foo.swf -- foo_spec.as --test

This works with any number of source files:

  $ asautotest foo.as -- bar.as -- baz.as -- quux.as

Options specified in such a section only apply to that source file.
In the following example, only <tt>bar.as</tt> is linked with
<tt>asspec.swc</tt> and compiled to <tt>bar.swf</tt>; the other two
files are just compiled to check for errors.

  $ asautotest foo.as -- bar.as -o bar.swf -l asspec.swc -- baz.as

You can use <tt>---</tt> (triple hyphen) to specify global options:

  $ asautotest foo.as -o foo.swf -- foo_spec.as --test --- -l asspec.swc

In the above example, both <tt>foo.as</tt> and <tt>foo_spec.as</tt>
would be linked with <tt>asspec.swc</tt>.


== License

Copyright (C) 2010  Go Interactive <http://gointeractive.se>

This file is part of ASAutotest.

ASAutotest is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

ASAutotest is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with ASAutotest.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
